## What is Data Analytics ?
Data analytics is the science of examining raw data to draw conclusions and identify patterns. It is a process of inspecting, cleaning, transforming, and modeling data to discover useful information, informing conclusions, and support decision-making.

It helps businesses to: 
- Understand their past performance and informs their decision-making for future actions.
- Identify new market opportunities or emerging customer needs.
- Personalize services or products to enhance customer experience.  

It answers questions like:
- What happened? (Sales dropped last month.)
- Why did it happen? (A competitor launched a cheaper product.)
- What will happen next? (Sales will likely rebound in Q3.)

### Data Analysis Process
There are several approaches, techniques, and processes that can be used for analyzing data.  Although, the following steps are considered a standard in the process of data analysis:
- **Developing an understanding of the problem and the desired outcome:** Understanding the problem that needs to be solved, ensure that you are working on the right direction and know desired/expected outcome.
- **Setting a clear metric for evaluating outcomes:** This stage of the process includes deciding what will be measured.
- **Gathering, cleaning, analyzing, and mining data to interpret results:** Identifying all sources of data, how this data would be stored, what tools would be used to analyze the same.
- **Communicating the findings in ways that impact decision-making:** Add a description or ways in which this communication can be established eg: reports, presentations, documentation etc, in a nutshell - Storytelling with the help of data.

### Modern Data Ecosystem and the Role of Data Analytics
A modern data ecosystem includes a network of interconnected and continually evolving entities that include: 
- **Data:** Data is available in various formats, structures, and sources. Documents, spreadsheets, structured, unstructured, primary, secondary  - these are all the words you will commonly hear associated with data. 
- **Enterprise Data Environment:** This is where raw data is staged so it can be organized, cleaned, and optimized for use by end-users.
- **End-users:** End-users are people such as business stakeholders, analysts, and programmers who consume data for various purposes.

Emerging technologies such as Cloud Computing, Machine Learning, and Big Data, are continually reshaping the data ecosystem and the possibilities it offers. 
Data Engineers, Data Analysts, Data Scientists, Business Analysts, and Business Intelligence Analysts, all play a vital role in the ecosystem for deriving insights and business results from data.  

Based on the goals and outcomes that need to be achieved, there are four primary types of Data Analysis: 
- Descriptive Analytics, that helps decode “What happened.” 
- Diagnostic Analytics, that helps us understand “Why it happened.” 
- Predictive Analytics, that analyzes historical data and trends to suggest “What will happen next.” 
- Prescriptive Analytics, that prescribes “What should be done next.”

### Data Analytics vs. Data Analysis
The terms Data Analysis and  Data Analytics are often used interchangeably. However it is important to note that there is a subtle difference between the terms and meaning of the words Analysis and Analytics.  In fact some people go far as saying that these terms mean different things and should not be used interchangeably. Yes, there is a technical difference.

The dictionary meanings are:
- **Analysis -** detailed examination of the elements or structure of something
- **Analytics -** the systematic computational analysis of data or statistics

Analysis can be done without numbers or data, such as business analysis psycho analysis, etc. Whereas Analytics, even when used without the prefix "Data", almost invariably implies use of data for perfoming numerical manipulation and inference. 

Some experts even say that Data Analysis is based on inferences based on historical data whereas Data Analytics is for predicting future performance. The design team of this course does not subscribe to this view, and you will see why later in the course as you become familiar with the terms like predictive analytics, prescriptive analytics, etc. 

We will take a more liberal view, and use the terms Data Analysis and Data Analytics to mean the same thing. For example, an earlier video is titled Defining Data Analysis, whereas the preceeding video with the viewpoints of several data professionals is titled What is Data Analytics. The difference in these titles is not intentional.

### The Data Analyst Role
The role of a Data Analyst spans across:

- Acquiring data that best serves the use case.
- Preparing and analyzing data to understand what it represents.
- Interpreting and effectively communicating the message to stakeholders who need to act on the findings.
- Ensuring that the process is documented for future reference and repeatability.

In order to play this role successfully, Data Analysts need a mix of technical, functional, and soft skills.

- Technical Skills include varying levels of proficiency in using spreadsheets, statistical tools, visualization tools, programming and querying languages, and the ability to work with different types of data repositories and big data platforms.
- An understanding of Statistics, Analytical techniques, problem-solving, the ability to probe a situation from multiple perspectives, data visualization, and project management skills – all of which come under Functional Skills a Data Analyst needs in order to play an effective role.
- Soft Skills include the ability to work collaboratively, communicate effectively, tell a compelling story with data, and garner support and buy-in from stakeholders. Curiosity to explore different pathways and intuition that helps to give a sense of the future based on past experiences are also essential skills for being a good Data Analyst.
