## The Data Ecosystem
A data analyst ecosystem includes the infrastructure, software, tools, frameworks, and processes used to gather, clean, analyze, mine, and visualize data.

### Types of Data
Based on how well-defined the structure of the data is, data is broadly categorized into three entities:
- **Structured Data:** Data that follows a rigid format and can be organized neatly into rows and columns is structured data. This is the data that you see typically in databases and spreadsheets, for example:
  - Dates
  - Phone numbers
  - ZIP codes
  - Customer names

- **Semi-Structured Data:** Semi-structured data is a mix of data that has consistent characteristics and data that doesn’t conform to a rigid structure, it is partially organized and partially free form. For example: emails. An email has a mix of structured data, such as the name of the sender and recipient, but also has the contents of the email, which is unstructured data.

- **Unstructured Data:** This is data which can not be organized conventionally into rows and columns. Usually omplex, and mostly qualitative information that is impossible to reduce to rows and columns. For example:
  -  Text files
  -  Websites
  -  Logs
  -  Sensor data
  -  Images
  -  Video & Audio
  -  Email messages
  -  Social media posts

### Databases
Data gets stored in databases. There are two types of databases where the data can be stored: Relational databases (RDBMS) and non-relational databases. Let's see the basic difference both of these:
| Relational Database | Non-relational Database |
|---------------------|-------------------------|
| Stores data in tables | Does not use tables |
| Relationship between tables and field types is called a schema | Optimized for the type of data its storing |
| Also called SQL Databases | Also called NoSQL Databases. There are 4 different types: Document oriented, Key-value stores, Wide-column stores, Graph stores |
| Popular relational/SQL Databases: MS SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL | Popular non-relational/NoSQL databases: MongoDB, Redis |

Data comes in a wide-ranging variety of file formats, such as delimited text files, spreadsheets, XML, PDF, and JSON, each with its own list of benefits and limitations of use.  

### Data Sources and Structure:
Data sources have never been as dynamic and diverse as they are today. Banks, government organizations, political data - there are numerous sources from which data can be extracted. With every data that is sourced, as a Data Analyst, you need to ensure its reliability and security. As varied are the sources of data, so are the data extraction methods from these sources.

Data is extracted from multiple data sources, ranging from relational and non-relational databases to APIs, web services, data streams, social platforms, and sensor devices. Once the data is identified and gathered from different sources, it needs to be staged in a data repository so that it can be prepared for analysis. The type, format, and sources of data influence the type of data repository that can be used. 
